---
layout: post
title: "非赢利组织的评估"
description: "非赢利组织评估模型"
category: blog
---



## 做好事的选择 Choices about Give

前言：
一个在新西兰的朋友11月问我：想长期资助一个女孩读书，找了两个慈善组织，一个是针对泰国孩子，一个是针对柬埔寨的孩子。把两个组织的网站发给我，商量选哪个？我想想也不知道怎么选，随口说：选柬埔寨吧。她问：为什么？我说：柬埔寨比泰国穷啊。后来想这种思维是不是比较草率？12月底突然发现一个coursera课程可以回答这个问题：斯坦福大学的 [Give 2.0](https://www.coursera.org/learn/philanthropist?siteID=je6NUbpObpQ-lxc.hTMpAGJSw9YxDh.U7A&utm_content=10&utm_medium=partners&utm_source=linkshare&utm_campaign=je6NUbpObpQ) ，发现真是啥都有学问。  简单背后都是不简单。

以下是以这个新西兰的慈善组织为例。这个评估模型，供有需者参考。

- Organization Name: the Cambodia Charitable Trust

- Mission: Create a brighter future for vulnerable children in rural Cambodia through education

- Year Founded: 30 June 2008

- Geographic Area of Service: Cambodia

- Target Population(s):They currently support twelve primary schools, four secondary schools and two teacher training colleges in the Takeo and Kampot provinces of Cambodia.

- Programs/Services Offered: children sponsor

- Head staff member of the Organization (usually an Executive Director or CEO):DENISE ARNOLD
	


- 1、Evaluation and Measurement:

> It is long term from 2008.

- 2、Knowledge Management: 

> Unsupported schools in poor villages are depressing to visit.  The buildings are dirty and decrepit, there are no working toilets, the children lack basic stationery and the teachers have very few resources to teach with. Once they identify a school in need and have the financial backing to support it, they consult with the locals about their needs as a community.

>They work closely with trusted, credible Cambodian networks and individuals directly within rural communities. This partnership enables them to together identity the needs of the community and the school and to work together to meet them.  

- 3、Landscape Map and External Factors: 

> They have a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport in Cambodia and they work in partnership with ministry staff to meet their education goals. they work closely with trusted, credible Cambodian networks and individuals directly within rural communities. That way they can ensure they achieve direct, measurable and sustainable results.

- 4、Staff: 

> They employ ten Cambodian staff and these wonderful people work at the local level to ensure they achieve direct, measurable and sustainable results.

- 5、Board: 


> Denise and a dedicated group of like-minded New Zealanders registered the CCT as a Charitable Trust with the New Zealand Charities Commission on 30 June 2008 under the Charities Act 2005.  Their  identification number is #2117636.

> Their current Trust Board members are: Theresa Gattung, Patron, Trustees: Denise Arnold, Solicitor, Don Pilbrow, Chartered Accountant and Marie Grills, Solicitor. Nadia Lim is The Trust’s Ambassador. The Trust is based in Tauranga, but has supporters throughout New Zealand.

- 6、Lifecycle Stage: 


> It is in a period of stability.

> All of volunteers meet their own travel and accommodation costs when working in Cambodia or in New Zealand and donate their time and expertise. Neither Denise Arnold, nor any of the Trustees or volunteers draw a salary from CCT or claim any of their expenses. They all believe passionately in what CCT is doing to put their own money and time in freely.


- 7、Finances: 

> It is health.

>  CCT does have administration costs, these are covered by the volunteers or by Lyon O’Neale Arnold, lawyers in Tauranga, of which CCT founder Denise Arnold is a Director. What costs CCT cannot avoid (bank fees and Xero costs) are covered by specific donations by individuals or the law firm.

> Every dollar donated goes to the projects in Cambodia where it is carefully spent to get the maximum impact. Where possible supplies are purchased in Cambodia to support the local economy and to make our New Zealand dollars go further.

## 评估问题参考

	
1、Evaluation and Measurement: What does success look like for this organization in the short, intermediate, and long-term? What data, metrics or indicators does the organization currently track and what do you think they should be tracking? Does the organization formally evaluate its programs and, if so, what are the results? 
	
2、Knowledge Management: Does the nonprofit have a knowledge management strategy? How has the nonprofit handled and learned its mistakes in the past? How is it sharing those findings? How is information disseminated across the nonprofit? How do they work with other organizations to learn and share findings? 
	
3、Landscape Map and External Factors: What are the external factors facing the organization and how do they impact the organization and its services? Choose the three most important external factors and write how they impact and could potentially impact the nonprofit. List other factors that are relevant. Reference the landscape map you created in Week 2 to help you answer this question. 
	
4、Staff: What is the staff size and structure? Who leads the organization and is he or she (and the rest of the staff) equipped to handle the needs of the organization and its beneficiaries? How does the staff structure support or hinder the organization? 
	
5、Board: What is the board size and structure? How does the nonprofit use its board? Are there a diversity of opinions, skill sets and backgrounds on the board team? Why would you trust them to guide the future of the organization? 
	
6、Lifecycle Stage: What is the lifecycle stage of the organization (e.g. Is it newly founded and experiencing rapid growth or is it in a period of stability?)? How does its stage of growth impact its ability to be effective? What changes has the nonprofit gone through recently and how did it handle them? 
		
7、Finances: Is the organization financially healthy, why or why not? How might the organization’s financial situation shift over time? Does the nonprofit have a clearly demonstrated need for funding? Cite specific numbers you find in the nonprofit’s financials. 




## ChangeLog

1、田捷创建 20180127


<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script>

/**
*  RECOMMENDED CONFIGURATION VARIABLES: EDIT AND UNCOMMENT THE SECTION BELOW TO INSERT DYNAMIC VALUES FROM YOUR PLATFORM OR CMS.
*  LEARN WHY DEFINING THESE VARIABLES IS IMPORTANT: https://disqus.com/admin/universalcode/#configuration-variables*/
/*
var disqus_config = function () {
this.page.url = https://violettianjie.github.io;  // Replace PAGE_URL with your page's canonical URL variable
this.page.identifier = https://violettianjie.github.io; // Replace PAGE_IDENTIFIER with your page's unique identifier variable
};
*/
(function() { // DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE
var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
s.src = 'https://https-violettianjie-github-io-1.disqus.com/embed.js';
s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
(d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
})();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>





