---
layout: post
title: " Tea class @zimeixuan "
description: "紫梅轩的吃茶课"
category: blog
---


## 紫梅轩的吃茶课




Let the world know Chinese tea

## Tea class ｜001 what not to do
Drinking tea is essentially a part of diet. If you open a teahouse, it naturally belongs to the catering industry. I choose to use the word "eat tea", because in general, I think drinking tea is a very simple thing and everyone's instinct that can be tapped.

Assuming that other conditions remain unchanged, we will face a problem: how to make the tea better under the existing conditions? The input is an existing condition. The output is a good cup of tea and soup. What can be controlled in the middle is the eyes, ears, nose, tongue, body and mouth of the person making tea.

This is what I want to use this series to communicate and discuss with you.The first is what not to do. All choices are to choose what not to do first and then what to do. In other words, first clarify what you are willing to give up for what you choose.If you want to drink tea well, what not to do:

1. Don't play with mobile phones

2. No gossip

3. Don't eat snacks (the gap between tea drinking is OK. Don't eat snacks while drinking tea, especially fruit, which will affect your taste)

4. There are no objects (such as mobile phones) irrelevant to tea drinking on the table of tea banquet or the space where you drink tea



### Lesson 1 assignment:

1. According to the requirements of "what not to do in tea class 001", make your daily tea. Welcome to leave a message and feedback your experience.Estimated operation time: 30 minutes.

## Tea class ｜ 002 some agreements



### 1、 Definition of tea
The tea here does not include non tea tea (many plant leaves / fruits that can be drunk or brewed are called tea), such as Kuding tea, fruit tea, tea made of dried flowers, etc.

### 2、 Which people or periods are not suitable for tea
(these are zi'er's suggestions. Whether they are implemented depends on everyone.)
1. Caffeine sensitivity (results can be known through genetic tests or daily feedback)
2. Women's period
3. During pregnancy
4. Other doctors' advice
5. Any time you feel uncomfortable

### 3、 Tea won't bring you anything
(these are zi'er's views. Don't expand. If you want to get the following harvest, the sharing of this series is not suitable for you.)
1. No cure
2. Cannot become a Buddha or an immortal
3. Can't help you practice (meditation / meditation)
4. Can not increase your artistic accomplishment
5. Cannot increase your philosophical system / thinking
6. Can't make you healthier and live longer
7. There is no so-called spiritual function of body and mind

### 4、 So what is the meaning of drinking tea?
1. One of the ways of entertainment.
(other options are tourism, reading, food, spa, pet keeping, photography, wine tasting, etc.)

### Lesson 2 assignment:

1. According to the requirements of "what not to do in tea eating class ｜ 001", make your daily tea (if you don't have tea at home now, you can make water, pretend to make tea, and you have to finish the water). Welcome to leave a message to feed back your experience.
Estimated operation duration: 30 minutes.

2. Review lesson 1



<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script>

/**
*  RECOMMENDED CONFIGURATION VARIABLES: EDIT AND UNCOMMENT THE SECTION BELOW TO INSERT DYNAMIC VALUES FROM YOUR PLATFORM OR CMS.
*  LEARN WHY DEFINING THESE VARIABLES IS IMPORTANT: https://disqus.com/admin/universalcode/#configuration-variables*/
/*
var disqus_config = function () {
this.page.url = https://violettianjie.github.io;  // Replace PAGE_URL with your page's canonical URL variable
this.page.identifier = https://violettianjie.github.io; // Replace PAGE_IDENTIFIER with your page's unique identifier variable
};
*/
(function() { // DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE
var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
s.src = 'https://https-violettianjie-github-io-1.disqus.com/embed.js';
s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
(d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
})();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>



